CSCI 568 Project 1.6
2009-10-20
Alejandro Weinstein 


* General Strategy

I started with the dataset I used previously in project 1.5, were I converted
many of the attributes from numeric to nominal, and selected the most
significant attributes. I run the ZeroR classifier on this dataset, getting a
lower bound for the accuracy of the classifiers. Then I run the SimpleCart
classifier with different subsets of attributes, trying to improve the accuracy
over the ZeroR results.


* Detailed procedure

- Run the ZeroR classifier using the following attributes:

Interval
Patient-Sex
Age
Patient-Race
Patient-Ethnicity
Patient-Disposition
Length of Stay
Principal-Dx-Code
Principal-PR-Code
PL1

The accuracy of the classifier is 44%, and the predicted class is disposition
code 1, which is by far the most popular code.

The file zeroR.txt has the details of the classifier.

- Run the SimpleCart classifier on the following attributes:
Age
Patient-Disposition
PL1

using a 3-fold cross-validation.

The accuracy of the classifier is 46.8%, which correspond to a slight
improvement over the ZeroR classifier. Note that from the 17 distinct
disposition codes, only codes 1, 3 and 6 are outputs of the classifier. This
makes sense since these codes represent 86% of the instances, making the
classifier to prune the other codes.

The file simple_cart_1.txt has the details of the classifier.

- I tried to improve the classifier result based on the following insight. We
don't really want to classify all the disposition codes, but to be able to say
if the code is 2 or 20. For this reason I converted the codes to the values
{0,2,20}, where 0 correspond to a code different than 2 or 20. I couldn't find
a Weka filter to do this, so I wrote the filter.py script to this end. Another
problem is that the codes of interest (2 and 20) are a small fraction of the
dataset, and the classifier ends ignoring these codes. To improve the results I
wrote the script sample.py, that keeps all the records with disposition code 2
and 20, but only keeps 10000 record with other disposition codes, increasing
the proportion of records with code 2 or 20.

I run the SimpleCart classifier on this new dataset on the following
attributes:

Patient-Sex
Age
Patient-Race
Patient-Disposition
Length of Stay
Admit-Type
Admit-Source
Region-ID
PL1

using a 5-fold cross-validation

The accuracy of the classifier is 65%. But more importantly, 60% of the code 2
and 50% of the code 20 records were classified correctly.

The file simple_cart_2.txt has the details of the classifier.